Add a page explaining Bundled Hermes (#3159)
facebook/react-native-website: website/architecture/bundled-hermes.md

---
id: bundled-hermes
title: Bundled Hermes
---

This page gives an overview of **how** Hermes and React Native **are built**.

If you're looking into instructions on how to use Hermes in your app, you can find instructions on this other page: [using Hermes](/docs/hermes)

:::caution

> Please note that this page serves as a technical deep dive and is targeted for users which are building extensions on top of Hermes or React Native. General users of React Native should not need to know in-depth information on how React Native and Hermes interact.

Reviewer: > 

> `jhgyjv`

To overcome this problem, we've extended the React Native release process to download and build Hermes, and make sure only one copy of JSI is used when building Hermes.

Thanks to this, we can release a version of Hermes whenever we release a version of React Native, and be sure that the Hermes engine we built is **fully compatible** with the React Native version we're releasing. We're shipping this version of Hermes alongside the React Native version we're doing, hence the name _Bundled Hermes_.

## How this will impact app developer

As mentioned in the introduction, if you're a app developer this change **should not affect** you directly.

The following paragraphs describe which changes we did under the hood and explains some of the rationales, for the sake of transparency.

### iOS Users

On iOS, we've move the `hermes-engine` you're using.

> Prior to React Native 0.69, users would download a remote podspec ([defined here](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs/blob/master/Specs/5/d/0/hermes-engine/0.11.0/hermes-engine.podspec.json)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to React Native 0.69, users would download a pod (here you can find the [podspec](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs/blob/master/Specs/5/d/0/hermes-engine/0.11.0/hermes-engine.podspec.json)).
```
The `hermes-engine` 0.11 is a fully fledged pod, published also in the official cocoapods website. When we say "download a remote podspec" we could introduce some confusion because people may think that it was a custom solution.

### Can users still use another engine?

Yes, users are free to enable/disable Hermes (with the `enableHermes` variable on Android, `hermes_enabled` on iOS). 
The 'Bundled Hermes' change will impact only **how Hermes is built and bundled** for you.

Please note that, at the time of writing, the default for `enableHermes`/`hermes_enabled` is `false`. 
We're looking into updating the template to have it default to `true` in the near future.

## How this will impact contributor and extension developers

If you're a React Native contributor or you're building an extension on top of React Native or Hermes, please read further as we explain how Bundled Hermes works.

### How is Bundled Hermes working under the hood?

This mechanism relies on **downloading a tarball** with the Hermes source code from the `facebook/hermes` repository inside the `facebook/react-native` repository. We have a similar mechanism in place for other native dependencies (Folly, Glog, etc.) and we aligned Hermes to follow the same setup.

When building React Native from `main`, we will be fetching a tarball of `main` of facebook/hermes and building it as part of the build process of React Native.

> When building a React Native from a release branch (say `0.69-stable`), we will instead use a **tag** on the Hermes repo to **syncronize the code** between the two repos. The specific tag name used will then be stored inside the `sdks/.hermesversion` file inside React Native in the release branch (e.g. [this if the file](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.69-stable/sdks/.hermesversion) on the 0.69 release branch).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When building React Native from a release branch (say `0.69-stable`), we will instead use a **tag** on the Hermes repo to **syncronize the code** between the two repos. The specific tag name used will then be stored inside the `sdks/.hermesversion` file inside React Native in the release branch (e.g. [this if the file](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.69-stable/sdks/.hermesversion) on the 0.69 release branch).
```

`When building React Native` or `When building a React native app`?

In a sense, you can think of this approach similarly to a **git submodule**.

If you're building on top of Hermes, you can rely on those tags to understand which version of Hermes was used when building React Native, as the version of React Native is specified in the tag name (e.g. `hermes-2022-05-20-RNv0.69.0-ee8941b8874132b8f83e4486b63ed5c19fc3f111`).

#### Android implementation details

To implement this on Android, we've added a new build inside the `/ReactAndroid/hermes-engine` of React Native that will take care of building Hermes and packaging for consumption ((See here for more context)[https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/33396]).

You can now trigger a build of Hermes engine by invoking:

```bash
// Build a debug version of Hermes
./gradlew :ReactAndroid:hermes-engine:assembleDebug
// Build a release version of Hermes
./gradlew :ReactAndroid:hermes-engine:assembleRelease
```

from the React Native `main` branch.

You won't need to install extra tools (such as `cmake`, `ninja` or `python3`) in your machine as we configured the build to use the NDK versions of those tools.

> On the Gradle consumer side, we also shipped a small improvement on the consumer side: we moved from `releaseImplementation` & `debugImplementation` to `implementation`. This is possible because the newer hermes-engine Android artifact is **variant aware** and will proper match a debug build of the engine with a debug build of your app. You don't need any custom configuration here (even if you use `staging` or other build types/flavors).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the Gradle consumer side, we also shipped a small improvement on the consumer side: we moved from `releaseImplementation` & `debugImplementation` to `implementation`. This is possible because the newer `hermes-engine` Android artifact is **variant aware** and will proper match a debug build of the engine with a debug build of your app. You don't need any custom configuration here (even if you use `staging` or other build types/flavors).
```

However, this made this line necessary in the template:

```
exclude group:'com.facebook.fbjni'
```

> This is needed as React Native is consuming fbjni using the non-prefab approach (i.e. unzipping the `.aar` and extracting `.so` files). Hermes-engine, and other libraries, are using prefab instead to consume fbjni. We're looking into [addressing this issue](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/33397) in the future so the Hermes import will be a oneliner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is needed as React Native is consuming `fbjni` using the non-prefab approach (i.e. unzipping the `.aar` and extracting `.so` files). Hermes-engine, and other libraries, are using prefab instead to consume fbjni. We're looking into [addressing this issue](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/33397) in the future so the Hermes import will be a oneliner.
```
